---
title: Project 3
url: 34.html
id: 34
date: 2009-07-13 12:35:03
---

### **DMDN 206:      IDENTITY & THE INTERNET**

**Project 03 :: PORT//Folio (40%)** 6 weeks duration: due 16-10-2008 [Click this link to download the brief - PDF (282kb)](http://blogs.mediazone.co.nz/2009-dmdn206/files/2009/07/dmdn206-project3-brief.pdf) **BRIEF:** The final project will be a portfolio site that demonstrates branding integrated with past projects. Students will use a full range of digital media and web technology to present their final concept on their own URL, complete with supporting documentation. Precedents should be gathered as a starting point before authoring the project outputs. Tumblr blogs should be incorporated into the portfolio site in some way, wither by RSS using "updates" or as a link in the main menu. The portfolio site will be authored using one of the two following technologies: **Wordpress/Drupal** Making use of the power of Wordpress or Drupal as a CMS you will promote your portfolio using a visual image heavy approach. A full range of plug-ins should be utilised to give the site a customised and unique look and feel that displays the evolution of your branding concept from _Project 1 :: Un-intentional_. Existing Wordpress or Drupal templates can and should be used as a starting platform from which to launch a fully customised and authentic looking website. **Flash** A custom Flash site that goes beyond the limits of interaction available using html/css/php. This site should display a fully customised approach from the interaction design of the wireframes to the execution of interaction within the portfolio site itself. It should go well beyond the realms of what is possible with regard to interaction using Wordpress or Drupal. **Delivery:** -       Wireframe content diagram displaying content elements and site layout for key pages _\[Full size PNG, 1024 px width\]_ -       Designed template displaying all design elements authored in Photoshop or similar _\[PS file; Full size PNG, 1024 px width\]_ -       Custom Wordpress or Drupal theme template _\[inline css/html\]_ -       A finished portfolio site using either Wordpress or Drupal as a CMS, or a custom Flash site _\[Wordpress/Drupal / Flash - include swf and flv files\]_ -       Minimum of 6 portfolio project pages that include a combination of image galleries, text, method, aim, goals, approach, brief _\[as post or pages on your portfolio site\]_ -       Integrated own social feeds into your portfolio them as well as your tumblr blog _\[using RSS, a CMS plug-in or an API\]_ -       A PowerPoint presentation that ties the project together and is presented at the final critique _\[file format .ppx / .ppt\]_ **APPROACH:** 1.     Research and gather precedents of other portfolio sites and website that fit with your brand 2.     Use content blocks and descriptions to layout a detailed wireframe document that displays all the content elements applicable to your portfolio site including detailed descriptions of any interaction that may happen between the interface and user. The wireframe should be pixel perfect, in that the width and height of all pixels corresponds to the Photoshop document authored in the design phase. 3.     On completion of the content wireframe apply colour, images and all other applicable design elements as design within Photoshop or a similar program. The design should be pixel perfect, in that the width and height of all pixels corresponds to the final portfolio site within the browser of your choice. 4.      Execute your design within the platform of your choosing (Wordpress/Drupal / Flash): a.       For Wordpress or Drupal, a custom template will need to be built either from scratch or using an existing theme complete with applicable plug-ins. b.      For Flash interaction must be fully realised using custom techniques and processes to create a remarkable, unique user experience. 5.     Add your portfolio pieces as content onto your website in the manner determined within your wireframe and design documents 6.     Add your social networking and other relevant feeds as features or integrated components of your website. 7.     Demonstrate your process by way of a PowerPoint presentation that will be presented at the final critique when the project is handed in. 8.     Fix up, look sharp. **OBJECTIVES:** -       Create a commercially viable portfolio site to promote your design aesthetic and point of view through branding and work to date. -       Develop a considered intentional approach to self-promotion and perception -       Create opportunities through the integration of social networking and the creation of an online considered presence in the public domain -       Become familiar with current and key technologies and frameworks related to the internet and your chosen profession **ASSESSMENT CRITERIA:** The following Assessment Criteria will be used by the tutors to grade the hand-in for Project 03: -       Clear documentation of the process, showing a considered approach to applying brand across the project outputs -       Continuation of brand experience across the media delivered in the project -       Demonstration of creativity, experimentation and expression with deliberate attention to overall style, look and feel including a high level of craft and attention to detail -       Display of technical skills and proficiency within the utilised software/hardware - techniques, textures, plug-ins, editing capability, materials -       All tasks completed with consistency and quality -       If using Wordpress or Drupal - a demonstration of a wide range of plug-ins and techniques that create a unique look and feel -       If using Flash - a demonstration of unique interactive techniques that would otherwise have not been possible using html/css/php.