---
title: Character Limit Guide for Content Recommendation
url: 44.html
id: 44
categories:
  - Information Architecture
date: 2008-05-01 21:49:44
tags:
---

One of the things that I've found useful in a content matrix that I've been writing is using a character limit guide to see on a page at different font sizes the relative space a certain amount of text takes up. So I thought I would post it up in the manner my blog is accustomed to - ie. Other than anything else it is a repository of useful stuff and my own personal log book that is open to all under Creative Commons. **6 words / 30 Characters with spaces** On the other hand, enjoy life. **9 words / 40 Characters with spaces** On the other one, enjoy life and love it **10 words / 50 Characters with spaces** On the other one, enjoy life and prosper every day **10 words / 70 Characters with spaces** On the other hand, we thoroughly denounce with righteous indignation. **30 words / 172 Characters with spaces** On the other hand, we denounce with righteous indignation and dislike men who are so beguiled and demoralized by the charms of pleasure of the moment, so blinded by desire. **50 words / 281 Characters with spaces** On the other hand, we denounce with righteous indignation and dislike men who are so beguiled and demoralized by the charms of pleasure of the moment, so blinded by desire, that they cannot foresee the pain and trouble that are bound to ensue; and equal blame belongs to those who? **100 words / 459 Characters with spaces** On the other hand, we denounce with righteous indignation and dislike men who are so beguiled and demoralized by the charms of pleasure of the moment, so blinded by desire, that they cannot foresee the pain and trouble that are bound to ensue; and equal blame belongs to those who fail in their duty through weakness of will, which is the same as saying through shrinking from toil and pain. These cases are perfectly simple and easy to distinguish. In a free hour, when our power of choice is untrammeled and when nothing prevents our being able to do what? **200 words / 1162 Characters with spaces** On the other hand, we denounce with righteous indignation and dislike men who are so beguiled and demoralized by the charms of pleasure of the moment, so blinded by desire, that they cannot foresee the pain and trouble that are bound to ensue; and equal blame belongs to those who fail in their duty through weakness of will, which is the same as saying through shrinking from toil and pain. These cases are perfectly simple and easy to distinguish. In a free hour, when our power of choice is untrammeled and when nothing prevents our being able to do what we like best, every pleasure is to be welcomed and every pain avoided. But in certain circumstances and owing to the claims of duty or the obligations of business it will frequently occur that pleasures have to be repudiated and annoyances accepted. The wise man therefore always holds in these matters to this principle of selection: he rejects pleasures to secure other greater pleasures, or else he endures pains to avoid worse pains. The wise man therefore always holds in these matters to this principle of selection: he rejects pleasures to secure other greater pleasures, or else he endures pains.